src/docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
menuOrder: 0
---

<script>
    import Key from "$lib/components/key.svelte"
</script>

## Installing Harlequin

After installing Python 3.8 or above, install Harlequin using `pip` or `pipx` with:

```bash
pipx install harlequin
```

If you want to control the version of DuckDB that Harlequin uses, see the [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting#duckdb-version-mismatch) page.

## Using Harlequin

From any shell, to open one or more DuckDB database files:

```bash
harlequin "path/to/duck.db" "another_duck.db"
```

To open an in-memory DuckDB session, run Harlequin with no arguments:

```bash
harlequin
```

You can also open a database in read-only mode:

```bash
harlequin -r "path/to/duck.db"
```

## Getting Help

To view all command-line options for Harlequin, after installation, simply type:

```bash
harlequin --help
```

To view a list of all key bindings (keyboard shortcuts) within the app, press <Key>F1</Key>. You can also view this list outside the app [here](bindings).

Commit message:

feat/adapters (#29)
* fix #27: add archie tweet

* fix #28: update about page with press

* update core pages for adapters

* feat: overhaul for multiple adapter support

src/docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
menuOrder: 0
---

<script>
    import Key from "$lib/components/key.svelte"
</script>

## Installing Harlequin

After installing Python 3.8 or above, install Harlequin using `pip` or `pipx` with:

```bash
pipx install harlequin
```

If you want to control the version of DuckDB that Harlequin uses, see the [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting/duckdb-version-mismatch) page.

## Using Harlequin with DuckDB

From any shell, to open one or more DuckDB database files:

```bash
harlequin "path/to/duck.db" "another_duck.db"
```

To open an in-memory DuckDB session, run Harlequin with no arguments:

```bash
harlequin
```

## Using Harlequin with SQLite and Other Adapters

Harlequin also ships with a SQLite3 adapter. You can open one or more SQLite database files with:

```bash
harlequin -a sqlite "path/to/sqlite.db" "another_sqlite.db"
```

Like DuckDB, you can also open an in-memory database by omitting the paths:

```bash
harlequin -a sqlite
```

Other adapters can be installed using `pip install <adapter package>` or `pipx inject harlequin <adapter package>`, depending on how you installed Harlequin. Several adapters are under active development; for a list of known adapters provided either by the Harlequin maintainers or the broader community, see the [adapters](adapters) page.

## Getting Help

To view all command-line options for Harlequin and all installed adapters, after installation, simply type:

```bash
harlequin --help
```

To view a list of all key bindings (keyboard shortcuts) within the app, press <Key>F1</Key>. You can also view this list outside the app [here](bindings).
